# ros-noetic-PX4-easy-installer
This is an easy installer for installing ROS noetic, PX4 (mavros), gazebo,... on ubuntu 20.04.
Basically this installs ROS(noetic) + Mavros + gazebo and all of the dependencies (Qt, JRE, etc) on ubuntu 20.04.   
This is the replacement for the same script used for ubuntu 18.04 ([link](https://docs.px4.io/master/en/dev_setup/dev_env_linux_ubuntu.html#ros-gazebo)) updated for ubuntu 20.04 and ros noetic.   

## Important note: 
Please note that this script installs the latest versions of cmake and git along with anaconda3 (`Anaconda3-2021.05-Linux-x86_64.sh` to be exact).   
In my experiments, I noticed having an up-to-date cmake and git solves several issues, so its recommened to install them as well.   
If you have them installed previously, then nothing will be installed.     
If you don't like installing anaconda3 or have it installed already, you can choose "no" when it comes to installing anaconda3, and carry on without it.   

# Installation: 
Simply do :
```
wget https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Coderx7/ros-noetic-PX4-easy-installer/main/ubuntu_sim_ros_noetic.sh
chmod +x /ubuntu_sim_ros_noetic.sh
./ubuntu_sim_ros_noetic.sh
```
Follow the on-screen instructions. 

### Note for Iranian users:
لطفا قبل از اقدام به نصب نسبت به استفاده از یک وی پی ان و تنظیم دی ان اس شکن اقدام کنید تا در فرایند نصب بعلت تحریم با مشکل مواجه نشید
Before going on any further, in order to circumvent sanctions, set the shecan DNS nameserver so the script doesn't fail: 
Run:
```
sudo nano /etc/resolv.conf 
```
and add 
```
nameserver 178.22.122.100
```
and then save.
Just note that after restarting your machine, `resolv.conf` settings will be reset, so a better approach is to make it permanent. 
To do so, do: 
`sudo apt install resolvconf`
and then open:
`sudo nano /etc/resolvconf/resolv.conf.d/head `
and write: 
`nameserver 178.22.122.100`
and then save it. Finally restart `resolvconf` by: `sudo systemctl restart resolvconf`. 
Now to check if everything is OK do:
`cat /etc/resolv.conf `
this should show you the nameserver we just wrote on top of whatever is in resolv.conf
for me it looks like:
```
# Dynamic resolv.conf(5) file for glibc resolver(3) generated by resolvconf(8)
#     DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE BY HAND -- YOUR CHANGES WILL BE OVERWRITTEN
# 127.0.0.53 is the systemd-resolved stub resolver.
# run "systemd-resolve --status" to see details about the actual nameservers.
# shekan dns server ip
nameserver 178.22.122.100
nameserver 127.0.0.53
search localdomain
options edns0
```

